in the last video we talked about
gradient descent for minimizing the cost
function J of theta for logistic
regression in this video I'd like to
tell you about some advanced
optimization algorithms and some
advanced optimization concepts using
some of these ideas we'll be able to get
logistic regression to run much more
quickly than is possible with gradient
descent and this will also let the
algorithms scale much better to very
large machine learning problems such as
if we have a very large number of
features here's an alternative view of
what gradient descent is doing we have
some cost function J and we want to
minimize it so what we need to do is we
need to write code they can take as
input the parameters theta and they can
compute two things J of theta and these
partial derivative terms for your J
equals 0 1 up to n given code they can
do these two things what gradient
descent does is it repeatedly performs
the following update right so given the
code that we wrote to compute these
partial derivatives gradient descent
plugs in here and uses that to update
our parameters theta so another way of
thinking about gradient descent is that
we need to supply code to compute J of
theta and these derivatives and then
these get plugged into gradient descents
which can then try to minimize the
function for us for gradient descent I
guess technically you don't actually
need code to compute the cost function J
of theta
you only need code to compute the
derivative terms but if you think of
your code as also monitoring convergence
of some such we'll think of this we'll
just think of ourselves as providing
code to probe up to compute both the
cost function and the derivative terms
so having written code to compute these
two things one algorithm we can use is
gradient descent but gradient is descent
isn't the only algorithm we can use and
there are other algorithms more advanced
more sophisticated ones that if we only
provide them a way to compute these two
things then these are different
approaches to optimize the cost function
for us so conjugate gradient bfgs and
l-bfgs are examples of more
sophisticated optimization algorithms
that need a way to compute J
they turn either way to compute the
derivatives and can then use more
sophisticated strategies than gradient
descent to minimize the cost function
the details of exactly what these three
algorithms that do is well beyond the
scope of this course and in fact you
often end up spending you know many days
or small number of weeks studying these
algorithms if you take a class if you
take a class in the advanced numerical
computing but let me just tell you about
some of their properties these three
algorithms have number of advantages one
is that with any of these algorithms you
usually do not need to manually pick the
learning rate alpha so one way to think
of these algorithms is that given these
the way to compute the derivative of the
cost function you can think of these
algorithms as having a clever inter-loop
and in fact they have a clever
inter-loop
called a line search algorithm that
automatically tries out different values
for the learning rate alpha and
automatically picks a good learning rate
alpha so that it can even pick a
different learning rate for every
iteration and so then you don't need to
choose it yourself these algorithms
actually do more sophisticated things
than just pick a good learning rate and
so they often end up converging much
faster than rate than gradient descent
these algorithms actually do more
sophisticated things than just pick a
good learning rate and so they often end
up converging much faster than gradient
descent but a detailed discussion of
exactly what they do is beyond the scope
of this course
in fact them I actually used to have
used these algorithms for a long time
like maybe over a decade quite
frequently and it was only you know a
few years ago that I actually figured
out for myself the details and what
conjugate gradient bfgs and l-bfgs do so
it is actually entirely possible to use
these algorithms successfully and
applied to lots of different learning
problems without actually understanding
the inner loop of what these algorithms
do if these algorithms have a
disadvantage I'll say that the main
disadvantage is that they're quite a lot
more complex than gradient descent and
in particular you probably should not
implement these algorithms concha
gradient lbf
yes BFGS yourself unless you're an
expert in numerical computing instead
just as you know I wouldn't recommend
that you write your own code to compute
square roots of numbers or to compute
inverses of matrices for these
algorithms also what I would recommend
you do is just use the software library
so you know to take a square root what
all of us do is use some function that
some someone else has written to compute
the square root of all numbers and
fortunately octave and the closely
related language MATLAB will be using
that octave has a very good it's a
pretty reasonable library implementing
some of these advanced optimization
algorithms and so if you just use the
built-in library
you know you get pretty good results I
should say that there is a difference
between good and bad implementations of
these algorithms and so if you're using
a different language for your machine
learning application that you're using
like C C++ Java and so on you might want
to try out a different couple different
libraries to make sure that you find a
good library for implementing these
algorithms because there is a difference
in performance between a good
implementation of you know constant
gradient or l-bfgs versus a less good
implementation of contra gradient or
l-bfgs so now let's explain how to use
these algorithms I'm going to do so with
an example let's say that you have a
problem with two parameters or theta
equals theta zero and theta one and
let's say your cost function is J of
theta equals theta one minus five
squared plus theta two minus five
squared
so with this cost function you know the
value for theta one and theta two if you
want to minimize J of theta as a
function of theta the value that
minimizes it is going to be theta one
equals 5 theta 2 equals 5 now again I
know some of you will know more calculus
than others but the derivatives of the
cost function J turn out to be these two
expressions down here and I've done the
calculus so if you want to apply one of
the advanced optimization algorithms to
minimize this cost function J so if you
know if we didn't know the minimum was
at 5 5 but if you want to have a
cost function find the minimum
numerically right using something like
gradient descent but preferably more
advanced than gradient descent what you
would do is implement an octave function
like this so we implement a cost
function cost function theta function
like that and what this does is it
returns two arguments the first j-val is
a how we would compute the cost function
J so this says J Val equals you know
theta 1 minus 5 squared plus de 2 theta
2 minus 5 squared so it's just computing
this cost function over here and the
second argument that this function
returns is gradient so gradient is going
to be a 2 by 1 vector and the two
elements of the gradient vector
correspond to the two partial derivative
terms over here having implemented this
cost function you would you can then
call the advanced optimization function
called the F min uncle it stands for
function minimization unconstrained in
octave and the way you call this as
follows you set a few options this is a
options it's a data structure that
stores the options you want so grant up
on this sense the gradient objective
parameter on it just means that you are
indeed going to provide a gradient to
this algorithm and we're going to set
the maximum number of iterations to
let's say 100 we're going to give it an
initial guess for theta there's a 2 by 1
vector and then this command calls F min
UNK this add symbol represents a pointer
to the cost function of function that we
just defined up there and if you call
this this will compute you know we'll
use one of the more advanced
optimization algorithms and if you if
you want to think of it as just like
gradient descent but automatically
choosing the learning rate alpha for you
so you don't have to do so yourself but
it will then attempt to use these sort
of advanced optimization algorithms like
gradient descent on steroids to try to
find the optimal value of theta for you
let me actually show you what this looks
like in octave so I've written there's a
cost function of theta function exactly
as we had it on their previous line it
computes j-val
which is the
cost function and it computes the
gradient with the two elements being the
partial derivatives of the cost function
with respect to you know the two
parameters theta 1 and theta 2 now let's
switch to my octave window I'm going to
type in those commands I had just now
so options equals optim set this is a
the notation for setting my parameters
or my options for my optimization
algorithm grad object on max enter 100
so that says 100 iterations and I am
going to provide the gradient to my
algorithm let's say initial theta equals
0 2 by 1 so that's my initial guess for
theta and now I have updater function
Val
exit flag equals F min unconstrained a
pointer to the cost function and provide
my initial guess and the options like so
and if I hit enter this will run the
optimization algorithm and the returns
pretty quickly so this funny formatting
that's because my line you know Maya
might come wrapped around but what this
funny thing is just because my command
line had wrapped around but what this
says is that it numerically renders you
know think of as gradient descent on
steroids they found the optimal value of
a theta is Theta y equals 5 theta 2
equals 5 exactly as we're hoping for the
function value at the optimum is
essentially 10 to the minus 30 so that's
essentially 0 which is also what we're
hoping for
and the exit flag is 1 and this shows
what the convergence status of this end
if you want you can do help F min um to
read the documentation for how to
interpret the exit flag but the exit
flag lets you verify whether or not this
algorithm things that has converged so
that's how you run these algorithms in
octave I should mention by the way that
for the octave implementation this value
of theta your parameter vector theta
must be in Rd for D greater than or
equal to 2 so if theta
is just a real number so if it's not if
it's not at least a two-dimensional
vector or some higher than
two-dimensional vector this fminunc may
not work so if in case you have a
one-dimensional function that you need
to optimize you can look in the octave
documentation for F min uncle for
additional details so that's how we
optimize our toy example of this simple
quadratic cost function how do we apply
this to logistic regression in logistic
regression we have a parameter vector
theta and I'm going to use a mix of
octave notation and select math notation
but I hope this explanation will be
clear but our parameter vector theta
comprises these parameters theta 0
through theta n because octave indexes
vectors using indexing from 1 you know
theta 0 is actually written theta 1 in
octave theta 1 is going to be written
sort of theta 2 in octave and that can
be written theta n plus 1 right and
that's because octave indexes is vectors
starting from index of 1 instead of an
index from 0 so what we need to do then
is write a cost function to there
captures the cost function for logistic
regression concretely the cost function
needs to return j-val which is you know
j Vallance you need some code to compute
J of theta and we also need to give it
the gradient so gradient 1 is going to
be some code to compute the partial
derivative respect to theta 0 the next
partial derivative respect to theta 1
and so on and once again this is
gradient 0 this gradient 1 gradient 2
and so on rather than gradient 0
gradient 1 because octave indexes is
vectors starting from 1 rather than from
0 but the main concept I hope you take
away from the slide is that what you
need to do is write a function that
returns the cost function and returns a
gradient and so in order to apply this
to logistic regression or even to linear
regression if you want to use these
optimization algorithms for linear
regression what you need to do is plug
the appropriate code to compute these
things over here
so now you know how to use these
advanced optimization algorithms because
I'm using because for these algorithms
you are using a sophisticated
optimization library it makes the code
just a little bit more opaque and so
just maybe a little bit harder to debug
but because these algorithms often run
much faster than gradient descent often
quite typically whenever I have a large
machine learning problem I will use
these algorithms instead of using
gradient descent and with these ideas
hopefully you'll be able to get logistic
regression and also linear regression to
work on much larger problems so that's
it for advanced optimization concepts
and in the next and final video on
logistic regression I want to tell you
how to take the logistic regression
algorithm that you already know about
and make it work also on multi-class
classification problems